# 4.2. Launch Turtlebot3 Simulator using docker-compose

To launch the Turtlebot3 simulator in Docker, we can use `docker-compose` to define and manage the Docker services required for the simulation. Follow the steps below to launch the Turtlebot3 simulator using `docker-compose`:

1. Create a new file called `docker-compose.yml` in your project directory.

2. Open the `docker-compose.yml` file and add the following content:

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  turtlebot3_simulator:
    image: ros2_turtlebot3
    environment:
      - DISPLAY=host.docker.internal:0
      - LIBGL_ALWAYS_INDIRECT=0
    command: bash -c "source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash && \
                      export TURTLEBOT3_MODEL=waffle && \
                      ros2 launch turtlebot3_gazebo turtlebot3_world.launch.py"
```

In the above `docker-compose.yml` file:
- `turtlebot3_simulator` is the name of the Docker service for the simulator.
- `image: ros2_turtlebot3` specifies the Docker image to use, which should be the one created in the previous step (`ros2_turtlebot3`).
- `command` sets the command to run inside the container. It sources the ROS2 setup files and launches the Turtlebot3 world simulation.

3. Save the `docker-compose.yml` file.

4. Launch the Turtlebot3 simulator using the following command:

```bash
docker-compose up
```

This command starts the Docker services defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file and launches the Turtlebot3 simulator.

5. Wait for the simulator to start. You should see the Turtlebot3 world simulation running in the console output.

Once the simulator is launched, you can interact with the Turtlebot3 robot and perform various tasks such as navigation, mapping, and localization within the simulated environment.